Hammām, a devout worshipper, once attained the honor of visiting Imam Ali (peace be upon him). He requested that the Imam describe the God-conscious (al-muttaqūn) in such a way that it would be as though he could see them before him. After a brief pause, the Imam began to speak:
”... فَاِنَّ اللهَ مَعَ الَّذِِینَ اتَّقُوا وَ هُمْ مُحْسِنُونَ“ 
“…Indeed, Allah is with those who are God-conscious and those who do good.”
(Surah al-Naḥl, verse 128)

“O Hammām! Be mindful of Allah and do good, for indeed Allah is with the God-conscious and the doers of good.”

Although the Imam’s response was brief and complete, Hammām was not satisfied with this much and repeatedly insisted that the Imam say more concerning the people of taqwā. The Imam then proceeded to describe the people of taqwā as possessing a number of virtues, among them the following:

༺《1》༻

The First Characteristic of the God-Conscious According to the Sermon of the Muttaqīn

⚜️ Good and Upright Speech
 ”مَنْطِقُهُمُ الصَّوََاب“؛
The God-conscious speak rightly and beautifully.

🔸وَ قُلْ لِعِبادِي يَقُولُوا الَّتِي هِيَ أَحْسَنُ

“Tell My servants to say that which is best.”
(Surah al-Isrāʾ, verse 53)

▪️ Imam Ali (peace be upon him) stated:
«الْعَقْلُ یُدُلُّ عَلَی الصَّوَابِ»
“Intellect guides one to correct speech.”
📓 Ghurar al-Ḥikam

Fiḍḍah al-Nūbiyyah, who was described by the Ahl al-Bayt (peace be upon them) as “one of us, Ahl al-Bayt", was the first interpreter and bearer of the knowledge of the Qur’an in the first Islamic century. Through her companionship with the Speaking Qur’ans—the Ahl al-Bayt (peace be upon them)—and her deep intimacy with the Qur’an, she attained such a lofty station that she spoke only through the language of the Holy Qur’an.

Since Lady Fiḍḍah (may Allah have mercy upon her) heard no speech in the House of Revelation except the speech of Revelation itself, her own speech became nothing but the speech of the Qur’an. It is narrated:

✨فضَّةُ جَارِيَةُ الزَّهْرَاءِ (علیها السلام) مَا تَكَلَّمَتْ مُنْذُ عِشْرِينَ سَنَةً إِلَّا بِالْقُرْآنِ
 Fiḍḍah, the servant of Hazrat al-Zahrāʾ (peace be upon her), did not speak except through the verses of the Holy Qur’an for a period of twenty years.

📔 Biḥār al-Anwār, vol. 43, p. 87
📔 ʿAwālim al-ʿUlūm wa al-Maʿārif, vol. 11, p. 1043

#fatimazahra #fatima #yazahra #یا_زهرا #فاطمة_الزهراء #فاطمة 
#karbala #imamhussain #muharram #noha #کربلا #امام_حسین #محرم #مداحی
#اللهم_بارک_لمولانا_صاحب_الزمان